= DeviseSmsConfirmable

Добавляет для Devise[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise] поддержку дополнительного подтверждения пользователем своей личности при входе в систему.
Если необходима дополнительная верификация, то пользователю отправляется СМС с секретным кодом, который он должен ввести после ввода логина и
пароля. В модуле реализована отправка смс через тестовый доступ (он временный и всего позволяет отправить порядка 10 смс) сервиса http://prostor-sms.ru.

== How does it work?

При подключении модуля DeviseSmsConfirmable (в вашей модели в методе devise ..., :sms_confirmable) в Devise::SessionsController добавляется специальный
befor_filter (append_before_filter для Devise::SessionsController) который вызывает данный модуль при регистрации пользователя.
Для опеределения нужна ли дополнительная верификация модуль использует специальный метод класса ApplicationController вашего приложения имя которого
задается в конфигурационном файле для Devise (метод необходимо определить в классе ApplicationController): 
 
  config.sms_confirmation_method = :sms_confirmation?

Если метод возвращает true, то модуль проверяет логин и пароль введенные пользователем (с помощью метода Warden::authenticate) и если пользователь
существует, то ему отправляется смс с секретным кодом, пользователь вместе с отправленным ему кодом запоминается в сессии и перенаправляется на страницу
подтверждения секретного кода.
Если пользователь ввел неверные логин или пароль, то он возвращается обратно на страницу регистрации.
Для получения секретного кода модуль использует специальный метод класса ApplicationController вашего приложения имя которого
задается в конфигурационном файле для Devise (метод необходимо определить в классе ApplicationController): 
 
  config.sms_secret_method = :sms_secret

Для получения номера телефона на который следует отправить смс модуль использует специальный метод вашей модели имя которого
задается в конфигурационном файле для Devise (метод необходимо определить в классе модели которая используется Devise):

  config.sms_confirmation_field = :phone_for_sms

Если на странице подтверждения пользователь вводит правильный секретный код то он успешно регистрируется в системе.

Для непосредственной отправки смс модуль использует специальный объект вашего приложения который задается в конфигурационном файле для 
Devise (у объекта должен быть метод send_sms который принимает два параметра - телефон в международном формате (+7910...) и сообщение)

  config.sms_provider = DeviseSmsConfirmable::Provider

По умолчанию используется идущий в комплекте модуль DeviseSmsConfirmable::Provider, который отправляет смс через тестовый доступ (он временный и всего позволяет отправить порядка 10 смс)
сервиса http://prostor-sms.ru. Для дефолтного отправщика нужно заполнить следующие параметры:

  config.default_provider_silent = true
  config.default_provider_login = "tstest1001"
  config.default_provider_password = "tstest1001"

Певый параметр позволяет не делать реальной отправки смс (если выставлен в true) (важно !!! так как используется тестовый доступ). Второй и третий параметры -
логин и пароль на сервисе смс рассылок http://prostor-sms.ru

Пример:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    devise :database_authenticatable, :registerable, :validatable, :sms_confirmable
    
    def phone_for_sms
      # here your code
    end
  end

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    def sms_confirmation?
      # here your code 
    end
    
    def sms_secret
      # here your code
    end
  end

== Installation for Rails ~> 3.0 and Devise ~> 1.1

Install DeviseSmsConfirmable gem, it will also install dependencies (such as devise and warden):

  gem install devise_sms_confirmable

Add DeviseSmsConfirmable to your Gemfile (and Devise if you weren't using them):

  gem 'devise',           '~> 1.1.0'
  gem 'devise_invitable', '~> 0.0.alpha1'

Install and setup Devise if have not yet.

== Automatic installation

Run the following generator to add DeviseSmsConfirmable’s configuration options in the Devise configuration file (config/initializers/devise.rb) and 
copy locals to your app (config/locales):

  rails generate devise_invitable:install

When you are done, you are ready to add DeviseSmsConfirmable to any of your Devise models using the following generator:

  rails generate devise_invitable MODEL

Replace MODEL by the class name you want to add DeviseInvitable, like User, Admin, etc. This will add the :invitable flag to your model's Devise modules. 
Continue reading this file to understand exactly what the generator produces and how to use it.

=== Manual installation

Follow the walkthrough for Devise and after it's done, follow this walkthrough.

Add :sms_confirmable to the <tt>devise</tt> call in your model (we’re assuming here you already have a User model with some Devise modules):

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    devise :database_authenticatable, :confirmable, :sms_confirmable
  end

== Devise configuration

DeviseSmsConfirmable adds some new configuration options.

You can set this configuration option in the Devise initializer as follow:

  # ==> Configuration for :sms_confirmable
  # sms_confirmation_field: model field which store phone for sms confirmation
  #config.sms_confirmation_field = :phone_for_sms
  # sms_confirmation_method: method of ApplicationController which return true if sms confirmation requred.
  #config.sms_confirmation_method = :sms_confirmation?
  # sms_secret_method: method of ApplicationController which return secret for sending
  #config.sms_secret_method = :sms_secret
  #sms_provider: special object which uses for sending SMS. It must have at least one method send_sms(phone, message) which return true or false
  #config.sms_provider = DeviseSmsConfirmable::Provider
  #default_provider_silent: if true default provider does't send sms
  #config.default_provider_silent = false
  #default_provider_login
  #config.default_provider_login = "tstest1001"
  #default_provider_password
  #config.default_provider_password = "tstest1001"

== Configuring views

All the views are packaged inside the gem. If you'd like to customize the views, invoke the following generator and it will copy all the views to your application:

  rails generate devise_sms_confirmable:views

You can also use the generator to generate scoped views:

  rails generate devise_invitable:views users

Please refer to {Devise's README}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise] for more information about views.

== Additional configuration

1. Because DeviseSmsConfirmable module uses special methods of your ApplicationController to check if sms confirmation
required and get sms secret you should provides ones. You can setup methods names in config/initializers/devise.rb, by default

    config.sms_confirmation_method = :sms_confirmation?
    config.sms_secret_method = :sms_secret

2. Because DeviseSmsConfirmable uses special field of authentication model to get phone number you should provide one.
You can setup field name in config/initializers/devise.rb, by default

  config.sms_confirmation_field = :phone_for_sms

== I18n

DeviseSmsConfirmable uses flash messages with I18n with the flash keys <tt>:signed_in</tt>, <tt>:not_confirmed</tt> and add the following keys for Devise - 
<tt>:send_sms_success</tt>, <tt>send_sms_fail</tt> and <tt>phone_not_found</tt>
To customize your app, you can modify the generated locale file:

en:
  devise:
    sms_confirmations:
      signed_in: 'Signed in successfully.'
      not_confirmed: 'Secret not confirmed.'
    sessions:
      send_sms_success: 'Please input code from SMS'
      send_sms_fail: "Please try Sign in later because we can't send SMS with confirmation code"
      phone_not_found: "You can't Sign in because phone for SMS confirmation not found"

You can also create distinct messages based on the resource you've configured using the singular name given in routes:

en:
  devise:
    sms_confirmations:
      :user
        signed_in: 'Signed in successfully.'
        not_confirmed: 'Secret not confirmed.'
    sessions:
      :user
        send_sms_success: 'Please input code from SMS'
        send_sms_fail: "Please try Sign in later because we can't send SMS with confirmation code"
        phone_not_found: "You can't Sign in because phone for SMS confirmation not found"

Take a look at the generated locale file (in <tt>config/locales/devise_sms_confirmable.en.yml</tt>) to check all available messages.

== Other ORMs

DeviseSmsConfirmable supports ActiveRecord and Mongoid, like Devise.

== Contributors


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Sergey Baranov. See LICENSE for details.
